Open Data Policy

About the Policy

This policy is in effect under Executive Order of Mayor Martin J. Walsh: “An Order Relative to Open Data and Protected Data Sharing,” issued April 7, 2014.  

Open Data Manager

The Open Data Manager of the City of Boston is responsible for publication of Open Data Sets in accordance with this Policy. The Open Data Manager shall identify Open Data of or held by the City of Boston and facilitate the preparation, loading, approval and publication of said data through the data.CityofBoston open data portal.

Standards and Formats

The Open Data Manager shall use the open data portal and other sites or services as appropriate to publish and maintain guidance to City Departments and other stakeholders describing the relevant standards and formats used to structure and access data sets on the open data portal.  

Interoperability and Access

To the extent practicable, the Open Data Manager shall also facilitate collaborative efforts of multiple governmental jurisdictions and public sector entities to pool, regionalize or otherwise coordinate the publication, accessibility and interoperability of Open Data.

City Departments

Leadership and personnel of City Departments shall work with the Open Data Manager to publish all data that are public record unless a public policy, security, liability or other material objection exists. Data shall be published as soon as practicable and in order of priority based upon relevant considerations.

Staging and Phasing Publication of Open Data
The City of Boston Corporation Counsel shall be notified as soon as practicable when the Open Data Manager and a City Department agree upon data to be published.

Legal and Regulatory Approvals and Continuing Compliance

The Corporation Counsel is responsible for determining whether publication of data is legally permitted or prohibited.  

Modifications to, Stipulations on or Revocations of Approvals
The Corporation Counsel may approve publication of data subject to stipulations. Material change in the data or other change in circumstances that impacts the basis upon which approval was provided may result in modification of approvals by the Corporation Counsel, including but not limited to the addition of stipulations, the prohibition against publication of some of the data or otherwise.
Open Data manifest
The Open Data Manager shall maintain a running manifest of all data published, stipulations applicable to such data, if any, and other data that is in the process of preparation for approval and publication, or that has been prohibited to be published, and shall publish the contents of said manifest for internal access by authorized personnel of the City of Boston. The Open Data Manager shall also include the contact information of relevant data owners, data custodians or other data stewards with operational, programmatic or other lead responsibility for the data published.

Controlled Data Policy
The CIO and the Corporation Counsel will develop a Controlled Data Policy that complies with Federal, Commonwealth, and local laws regarding privacy, confidentiality and security of data.  This policy is intended to cover authorized access to and/or required disclosure of data that is subject to a legal restriction, protection or other control that prevents its open, public distribution.   The City’s development and implementation of a Controlled Data Policy will be deliberate and measured to ensure protection against data breaches and improper disclosures of sensitive data. Where appropriate, initial controlled data sharing will be on a pilot basis before implementation of a comprehensive data sharing agreement.    

Administrative Provisions

Authoritative Source: 

The authoritative source, as may be amended from time to time, of the current version of this policy is the Hub Document Library, and an up to date copy shall also be published on the open data portal. 

Applicability:

Applicable Scope: This policy applies to the City of Boston Open Data Manager and to the City of Boston data owners, data custodians or other data stewards with respect to the collection, publication and maintenance of Open Data.
Applicable Period: This policy is effective upon publication by the City of Boston CIO and shall remain valid and effective unless and until it is amended, repealed or otherwise duly revoked.
Amendment:
This policy may be amended, from time to time, by the City of Boston CIO. 





